# Samples
These pages can be used to learn how to achieve particular effects and are 
also used to test and debug the framework itself before each release.

If you are new to this framework I strongly recommend studying the samples
 in the order presented here. Each sample contains comments that supplement
 the documentation. Sometimes it is easier to explain something within the
 context of a code sample.

To try these samples, clone this repository onto your computer, navigate to
the `./samples` folder and open the html files in your browser (try double 
clicking on the file). I highly recommend playing around with these samples 
to get a much better understanding of how the framework works.

## Model loader sample
For the model loader sample, you cannot simply open the html file in your browser
because the asset loading will be blocked by CORS. There is no way around this, you
have to run a web server locally.

To run a web server and try this sample:
1. Open a command line, shell or VS Code terminal window
2. Navigate to the `./samples` folder
3. Install Python 3 if you don't already have it
4. Execute the command `python -m http.server` and leave the command running
5. Open `http://localhost:8000/model-loader.html` in your browser

## Hello Cube
This [sample](hello-cube.html) is the nearest thing to a "Hello, World" 
application for WebGL. This is a great starting point if you are new to the framework

Things to mess around with on this sample:
* Every step is documented with comments. These are designed to give you step-by-step
  instructions on how to set up a scene successfully.
* Change the ID of the canvas element and make sure Frag knows how to find it
* Change the camera settings and see how that affects the scene projection
* Try moving and/or scaling the cube
* Find some other texture bitmaps and see what they look like on the cube.
* Add multiple instances of the cube model with different sizes and place them in the scene

## Mesh debug
This [sample](mesh-debug.html) illustrates the following features and techniques
* Only draws colored verticies - no textures or materials
* Displays a cube in wireframe mode so that the mesh can be visualized
* Displays normal vectors as short blue lines sticking out from the vertices
* Spins the cube using a `ValueAnimationAction` instance

Things to mess around with on this sample:
* Speed up or slow down the rotation of the cube
* Switch the cube to flat shading and notice the effect on the normals
* Turn wireframe mode on and off
* Change the color of the cube and the color of the normals
* Shader debugging is turned on. See what it outputs to the console
* Try configuring some other shader features and see how the shader changes

## Butterflies
This [sample](butterflies.html) illustrates the following features and techniques
* Defines some very simple bufferfly models with different colors sharing the same mesh
* Reuses the same flying animation on all of the butterfly models
* Configures WebGL to draw the back faces so that we can see the butterfly wings from any direction
* Creates many butterflies based on the differently colored models and makes them fly about
* Butterflies have limited life and get removed from the scene

Things to mess around with on this sample:
* This sample will show you the basics of meshes, models, animation and object lifetime
* Try drawing a butterfly in Blender, exporting a `.frag` file, creating a package and importing it into the scene

## Photo recolor
This [sample](photo-recolor.html) illustrates the following features and techniques
* Is a fully 2D scene that displays a photo with part of the photo recolored
* The area of the photo to recolor is defined by a mask which is generated by rendering a
  scene to a bitmap and supplying the bitmap to a custom shader.
* Demonstrates rendering a scene as a texture.
* Demonstrates writing your own custom shader.

Things to mess around with on this sample:
* Modify the shaders and see what other effects you can come up with
* Instead of rendering a square, render a more complex scene to define the mask
* The mask can be a greyscale to blend smoothly between original and recolored pixels, use this to soften the edges
* The shader currently uses the red channel only. Use the blue and green channels to recolor two other areas of the photo with different colors

## Model loader
This [sample](model-loader.html) illustrates the following features and techniques:
Note that this sample must be hosted by a web server - see above.
Once you have a Python http server running you can see this sample running at this url http://localhost:8000/model-loader.html
* Loads a package of models that were exported from Blender
* Defines the materials to use to paint the models as hard-coded 1x1 pixel textures
* Creates an animation sequence that combines model movements within the scene with animations imported from Blender
* Demonstrates some of the things that you can wire up to user input
* Draws the frames per second using a packaged font

Things to mess around with on this sample:
* Modify the animation sequence to create a different behavior for the excavator
* Create a material package that paints the model in PBR materials exported from Substance Player
* Add some terrain for the excavator to move on
* Update the model in Blender. Export a Frag model from Blender and rebuild the model package
* Generate some other fonts, package them and draw some text in different styles and colors

## Truck on a Track
This [sample](truck-on-track.html) illustrates the following features and techniques:
* Creating complex animations in code. In this case the truck moves along a 3D path in the scene at constant speed
* Combining scene position animation with model animations in a sequence
* applying the same animation to multiple child objects (turning the wheels)
* Drawing complex shapes in code. In this case the track is drawn as a 3D ribbon

Things to mess around with on this sample:
* Alter the shape and length of the track
* Improve the appearence of the truck
* Make the truck and trailor pivot when it goes around corners
* Make the front wheels of the truck turn when it is turning

## Multiple engines
This [sample](multiple-engines.html) illustrates the following features and techniques:
* Adding multiple canvases on one html page and rendering them independantly using separate engine instances
* Creating a class to encapsulate your game, and instantiating one game instance for each canvas
* Integrating a front-end framework. In this case [Vue.js](https://vuejs.org/)

Things to mess around with on this sample:
* Make the WebGL scenes more interesting
* Add a check box that toggles the cubes between flat and smooth shading
* Add some game UI features using Vue.js
* Add a color picker and re-build the cube mesh with the color chosen